---
layout: post
title: "LUMI chooses Puhuri as an allocation platform"
post_id: 1
featured: true
date: 2022-03-02 12:40:30 +0200
tags: [LUMI, Puhuri, CSC, EuroHPC]
post_image: '/assets/images/blog/lumi.jpg'
comments: false
excerpt: Puhuri’s first use case - LUMI supercomputer
---

<p>At the end of 2021, the LUMI consortium countries gained access to the LUMI supercomputer in Kajaani, Finland. LUMI is one of the most powerful supercomputers in the world. At full capacity, LUMI can perform more than 550 quadrillions (million billion) calculations per second, this equals the power of 1.5 million personal computers. At the same time, LUMI is one of the most environmentally friendly supercomputers in the world, as it uses only hydroelectric power. The heat generated during the operation of the powerful processors is used to heat the city of Kajaani. In addition, it is important to note that up to 20% of a new supercomputer's resources are for commercial use. It follows that, in addition to solving scientific problems, LUMI also plays an important role in improving the competitiveness of the European economy.</p>

<p>In order to allow users to access the new supercomputer, the resource management solution Puhuri was developed. This solution is based on Waldur software developed by the specialists at the UT High-Performace Computing Center. Puhuri service consists of three components. The first component is the web portal, through which applications for the use of resources are submitted and approved. If necessary, LUMI consortium members can connect the already existing national portals with the Puhuri solution, e.g. in the case of Estonia and Sweden. Another component is the authentication and authorization infrastructure MyAccessID, which allows secure identification of users through local academic organizations or national authentication services. The final main Puhuri component is an application interface that acts as a central database of information between the supercomputer and the portals, containing information about projects, users and resources involved.</p>

<p>The Puhuri solution developed for LUMI is relatively easy to apply to other supercomputers as well. Therefore, it is planned to offer Puhuri's solution for other supercomputers managed by the European High-Performance Computing Joint Undertaking (EuroHPC JU) in the future. The Puhuri solution will also be used in the coming NeIC NordIQuEst project, which aims to build a cloud of quantum computers. Puhuri is a ready-to-use service that saves time and money on creating ad hoc solutions.</p>
